Welcome, everybody to
Professional TypeScript.
I'm Mike North,
I'm a senior staff engineer at LinkedIn,
where I lead infrastructure
product design.
And I'm the company's
TypeScript language expert.
So today, we're going to be talking about
the use of TypeScript in
non-trivial projects.
So we're calling this
Professional TypeScript.
And the idea here is we take you
from knowing a little bit about
the programming language.
Such as having completed one of
the earlier TypeScript courses in
the Frontend Master catalog.
To being able to be proficient with
this language for your everyday use.
One of the most important things I hope to
leave you with at the end of this course
is being able to speak about TypeScript in
terms of the benefits it brings to your
project.
In addition to being aware
of the limitations, and
knowing how to de-risk some of
those limitations, so to speak.
So TypeScript is obviously a programming
language, it's a compiler, right?
We we run the TSC command in our command
line, and it's also a language server.
This is part of the magic
behind Visual Studio Code,
the thing that gives you
those great autocompletes.
The things that lets you control click,
and
go from file to file, and navigate
through your code really effectively.
It is a syntactic superset of JavaScript.
So this does not mean that
every piece of JavaScript
is going to make
the TypeScript compiler happy.
In fact, the point is to encourage
you to do certain things, right?
To make sure you're keeping
your types consistent,
it's gonna object to a lot of JavaScript.
It's a syntactic superset in
that it builds upon the existing
JavaScript syntax that you know.
TypeScript provides the core of the best
authoring environment available today for
web development, and for
no Node.js development.
But I think of it almost
as a fancy linter, right?
In a modern tool chain TypeScript
is just doing the type checking.
And often we rely on tools like Babel
to actually admit JavaScript modules.
So really TypeScript role in the asset
pipeline is to make sure that
you're following through on
the guarantees you intend to make.
Like a function returns
this kind of value,
it'll make sure that you're
actually doing them.
As a product design person, so
I like to think about these kinds
of things as the types of problems
that they aim to solve, right?
What does TypeScript aim to solve?
Well, first,
in a JavaScript Code base without types.
As you get more and more code as more
contributors during the project,
things become more difficult to manage,
right?
It starts to become harder to keep these
contracts between modules under control.
And when I say that informal
contracts grow organically,
I'm not talking about organic groceries or
organic food.
And we're talking about
organic mold that's growing in
someplace you don't want it, right?
This is the idea of things
just keep getting added, and
added, and
added as people tack on more features.
And you want things to sort of,
at any given state,
you want them to look like they
were designed, with intent, right?
They were designed,
like there was a purpose in mind,
and we're keeping organized
types make that much easier.
TypeScript solves
the problem of JavaScript
editing environments being way behind
some other programming languages, right?
So if you look at a Java IDE,
like IntelliJ, right?
They have right click to refactor, and
they can click to go in from an instance
of a class to where that class is defined.
The JavaScript ecosystem has
largely been missing out on this.
And TypeScript kind of allows
this this ecosystem to catch up.
And then finally,
there's this issue of safety.
Too many JavaScript errors
are discovered at runtime by users.
And TypeScript takes some subset of those,
and brings them into compile time.
So that they're caught as you're compiling
your code before you even open a pull
request, as opposed to being something
that a user will report as a bug, right?
Catching these things earlier
is always a good thing.
We're gonna learn about TypeScript
today in the context of building
a real world app, or
a simplified version of one.
And this of course, is Slack, right?
Where you have several teams,
each team has a channel or one or
more channels, and
the channel has messages here.
So this is designed to be
a non-trivial project.
It's still small enough
that we can get a feel for
some of the real world challenges
you're likely to face when
using TypeScript every day as
a professional and in production.
The topics that we're going to talk about,
begin with a little
recap of recent advancements in
the TypeScript programming language.
So we're gonna talk about new language
features that have been added.
We'll touch a little bit on
library versus app concerns,
there are certain things that
only libraries care about.
We're going to go from an empty
folder to my preferred set up for
a TypeScript project.
And this will include API documentation,
it'll even help us understand for
a given pull request.
What are the ramifications on the API
surface of my little library?
So a lot of automation there with minimal
tooling, just to keep things nice and
simple.
We're going to have a deep understanding
by the end of this course around,
how things build, how things are limited,
and how to test them?
And we're gonna really understand each one
of these little config files that are in
the project, so
that you can take this back to your team.
And you can apply what
we've learned today.
If you've looked at the previous course,
TypeScript, three fundamentals, v2.
I presented there a strategy for
converting a code base from
JavaScript to TypeScript.
Now, if you tried to apply this on a large
scale project, you probably found that
step three, the third of the three steps,
that entails 80% of the work, right?
It's a lot of work, so we're gonna spend
some time today breaking that down, and
helping define a path for
a larger project with a bigger team.
How do we get from JavaScript to
TypeScript successfully without it
feeling like you're trying to
scale a cliff on that third step?
We'll talk about definitely typed,
which is a community repository for
ambient type information.
This is where you would get types for
something like react, or lodash.
And dealing with these ambient type files,
these declaration files is a bit tricky.
There are things that you need to
know about, how these work and
what the limitations are?
And I'll show you, how I debug these,
and how I work with these?
And set you up for
success in the likely event that you find
something wrong with one of these things.
You will be able to go to GitHub and
fix it, and keep your app moving.
One of the biggest problems that
we deal with in in the TypeScript
world is runtime values, right?
These are API responses
we get from a JSON API.
How do we deal with those when
the TypeScript piece of your app,
the type information it
disappears after build time?
How do we make sure that
we're treating API responses
in a way that keeps our type
base guarantees strong?
We'll talk about tests for types,
tests for that pure type information, not
just the test that you're writing for your
JavaScript Code but in TypeScript, right?
So we'll look at two tools, and
I use both of these together that
allow you to test your type information
just like you test everything else.
And then finally,
towards the end of the day we'll talk
about automated API change detection.
Meaning, if you have a component and it
makes certain, like functions available,
how do you know when your contracts
between things are changing?
I'll introduce you to
a tool called API Extractor
that makes this process easier
than you ever thought possible.
And then finally, I'm gonna share some
of the knowledge I have from LinkedIn
about using TypeScript at scale, right?
This is teams with 200 contributors and
hundreds of code changes
being merged every day.
How does a project like that stay fast?
And you can take some of these tips, and
you can bring them into your own app.
And if it makes a huge codebase fast,
it'll make your app fast too.
So with that, please click this link
should be pretty easy to remember.
Click this link, and
it'll take you to a Git repo.
And the next thing we're going to do is
follow the instructions in the README.
And be careful to read the README,
there are some steps in there
you may not have seen before.
And we're gonna get set up with this
workshop project, the Slack app.